PIETERMARITZBURG, March 2 – Maritzburg United gave their survival hopes a major boost at a packed Harry Gwala Stadium on Friday night with a last-gasp 2-1 league win over AmaZulu.
Eric Tinkler’s men dominated the KZN derby and were the only team in the game. But after a series of misfortunes they found themselves 1-0 down after a Bandile Shandu own goal just before the break, before Fortune Makaringe and Judas Moseamedi struck in the final 15 minutes of a dramatic encounter.
With the rain making for a slick playing surface, the home side made a bright start and were unlucky not to go ahead in the 23rd minute after Thabiso Kutumela’s free kick rattled the upright.
Maritzburg grew stronger as the first half progressed and again came close on the half hour mark when Yannick Zakri ran a full 50 metres at goal before side-footing a shot, but he was denied by an outstanding reflex save from AmaZulu keeper Siyabonga Mbatha.
The Pietermaritzburg team were in commanding mood, but were to find themselves stunned in the 44th minute after Talent Chawapiwa put in a dangerous cross which was headed into his own net by Shandu.
To their credit the hosts dusted themselves off and went looking for an equaliser, but again luck eluded them as Shandu’s shot deflected off Marc van Heerden and just wide of goal before Mbatha made a point-blank save at the feet of Nazeer Allie.
AmaZulu continued to live dangerously after the interval as Mxolisi Kunene came within inches of finding the bottom corner before Mbatha made an incredible save with his feet to keep out Kutumela’s close range shot on 62 minutes.
The pressure continued to mount on the AmaZulu defence and the Team of Choice finally got the goal they deserved when Makaringe bundled the ball in from close range in the 76th minute, after Mbatha had blocked a header from Allie.
The capacity crowd willing them on, Maritzburg pushed for the winner and it came in the 92nd minute when Kunene’s cross was headed by Mohau Mokate into the path of Moseamedi, who finished with a clinical first-time shot. (ANA)