Solly Makganoto JOHANNESBURG – KwaZulu-Natal police have confirmed that Bongekile ‘Babes Wodumo’ Simelane has opened a case of assault against her partner Mandla “Mampintsha” Maphumulo. Family spokesperson Sakhile Mhlonishwa Langa said on Monday evening that Simelane had opened the case at Westville Police Station on Monday afternoon. Earlier, national police spokesperson Vishnu Naidoo declined to confirm whether a case of common assault in domestic violence had been opened, saying he wanted to avoid exposing Simelane to “greater danger”. Instead, they called on Mampintsha to hand himself in. “We are asking him to contact us at the Westville police station because we believe he can assist us in the investigation of this case.” South African celebrities and the wider public expressed outrage over a video allegedly showing Wodumo being assaulted by her long-term boyfriend Mampintsha. This comes after a dimly-lit video in which she appears to suffer abuse at the hands of Kwaito star Mampintsha went viral on social media. Babes was live on instagram and she started asking Mampintsha “why are you beating me”, at which he appears to hit her repeatedly. Politicians and art world celebrities took to Twitter condemn Mampintsha. Democratic Alliance leader Mmusi Maimane tweeted: “If Mampintsha has it in him, I’d challenge him to 3 rounds on a boxing ring. He must bring it on, violence against woman must be condemned. A charge must be opened. It makes me sick this behavior.” Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa also expressed dismay. Local DJ Zinhle said: “I hope they make an example out of him so every man knows that hitting a woman is unacceptable and will not be tolerated. My heart breaks for Babes.” Singer Amanda Black also weighed in. “I’m not exactly sure what the law says, but can’t @SAPoliceService arrest Mampintsha first just because a crime was committed and there’s proof, even if Babes hasn’t pressed charges? Babes needs support to know we have her back, I hope she presses charges and leaves,And heals.” Fellow musician tweeted Casper Nyovest: “I really wanna see what the cops are gonna do now that there’s hard evidence that the whole country is watching. My guess is NOTHING. I have lost all confidence in our police and our justice system.” Radio DJ Mo Flava added: “Mampintsha has a problem,and something needs to be done.Too many men are getting away with nonsense. How do we rid society of such? How do we make sure that we have less guys like this?” Wodumo responded to the messages with a post on her official twitter timeline. It expressed gratitude for the show of support and said the singer was “still too emotional about the situation” to conduct any interviews. It added that she would issue a statement later in the day. In a radio interview on Metro Fm in 2018, Masechaba Ndlovu confronted Babes about reports of abuse. The singer did not confirm or deny the allegations. Mampintsha later responded to the allegations saying he is no saint and appeared on the same radio show asking people to pray for the couple.