JOHANNESBURG, March 27 – The Public Investment Corporation (PIC) has welcomed the decision by the High Court in Pretoria on Tuesday to set aside a compliance notice from the Companies and Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC) compelling AYO Technology to repay R4.3-billion within two weeks. AYO Technology owes the money to the PIC “The Court acknowledged that most of the issues that PIC raised against CIPC were conceded by CIPC and these issues included absence of a fair procedure; irrational decision taken by CIPC; and the existence of material factual errors in CIPC’s notice,” the PIC said in a statement. In the statement, the PIC said that the “only issue” in dispute was whether the compliance notice that was issued was defective and stood to be set aside or if it should be suspended pending the review. “In that regard, the court made an important finding that the CIPC failed to afford the PIC a constitutional right to be heard prior to issuing the notice. This rendered the notice invalid and null and void,” the PIC said. “The CIPC’s counter application was dismissed on the basis that there was no valid notice to be amended or modified. On the other hand, Ayo’s application to set aside the CIPC notice was rendered moot pursuant to the judgment in favour of the PIC. “It was accordingly removed from the roll. The PIC remains committed to carry out to conclusion the steps that it had already taken to recover the invested funds without any delay.” The PIC had asked the court in Pretoria to set aside the notice, saying the CIPC did not give it adequate time to comply, eNCA reported. Earlier a eNCA reporter read an excerpt from the court ruling on Tuesday, which said in part: “The compliance notice issued by the respondent (CIPC) on the 21st February 2019 to the applicants (PIC) is declared unlawful and of no force or effect.” Speaking to radio station 702 in response to the ruling, deputy finance minister and PIC chairman Mondli Gungubele said the stance of the state owned entity – which has over R2 trillion of assets under management, making it Africa’s largest – was that “procedures to actually direct a notice of that nature were not followed”. “It’s got nothing to do (with) whether the money should be recovered or not,” Gungubele added, saying the PIC was making legal consultations on whether there was any legal basis to recover the R4.3 billion and if so how to do that. “Naturally, what we expect the court to assist us on is a practicable period within which this can be done,” he said. AYO Technology, which is listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, had itself also asked the high court to interdict the CIPC from enforcing the notice and to also set it aside. It argued that the uptake by the PIC of its listed shares through a private placement in December 2017 was fully transparent and complied with all the necessary legal requirements. (ANA)