PORT ELIZABETH, January 26 – Mamelodi Sundowns became the first of the big guns to be knocked out of the Nedbank Cup after they were on the wrong end of a 2-1 scoreline against Chippa United in a round of 32 encounter at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium on Saturday afternoon. In a riveting game in Port Elizabeth, the home side scored early on through Lerato Manzini with Masandawana equalising via Phakamani Mahlambi, before Frederic Nsabiyumva netted a 94th minute winner. Despite their lowly league position, Chippa were the dominant side in the first half and should really have been in front, rather than the 1-1 scoreline at the interval. The Chilli Boys certainly made the perfect start, taking the lead with only two minutes played after Kurt Lentjies rolled a free kick into the path of Manzini, who sent a scorching drive from 25-yards out into the bottom corner. Two minutes later and Thabo Rakhale went clean in on goal, but a slightly heavy touch allowed Sundowns keeper Denis Onyango to rush off his line and make a brave block. Rakhale was to squander another chance, in the 20th minute, as the ball fell kindly to him in front of goal, but from just eight yards out he miscued his shot well wide. Chippa’s dominance continued and only the woodwork prevented them from adding a second goal on the half hour mark as Tercious Malepe rattled the crossbar with a thunderous drive from 40-yards out. However, the hosts’ inability to take their chances was to come back to bite them as Sundowns equalised in the 32nd minute, Mahlambi doing superbly to chest down Gaston Sirino’s long ball before slotting in a clinical half volley from the edge of the big box. After the interval the two sides continued to enjoy regular chances on goal in what was becoming a real thriller of a cup tie. First up was Rakhale, whose 53rd minute shot was tipped over by Onyango, before Mahlambi’s goal-bound effort hit teammate Themba Zwane just a couple of yards out from the goal line. More followed as Sphelele Mkhulise’s shot was tipped onto the bar by Chippa keeper Daniel Akpeyi, before Onyango made a smart stop to keep out a stinging strike from home captain Andile Mbenyane. The action continued unabated as play went from end-to-end, but despite openings for both sides, the match looked to be heading for extra time. Nsabiyumva, however, had other ideas as he popped up in the box deep in added time to head home from a corner as Onyango flapped weakly at the ball. (ANA)