Johannesburg – Empire star, Jussie Smollett was rushed to hospital after being physically attacked in Chicago on Monday night. According to E! News, Smollett was confronted by two men who gained his attention by shouting racial and homophobic slurs towards him. The men reportedly proceeded to assault Smollett before pouring an unknown chemical substance on him. During the attack one of the offenders also allegedly wrapped a rope around Smollett’s neck. Smollett was self-transported to Northwestern Hospital after the offenders fled the scene, TMZ reports. The singer is said to be in a good condition and was discharged from the hospital after being seen to. A statement by the Chicago Police Department, which was shared on Twitter, confirms the incident is being treated as a “possible hate crime”. “The Chicago police department received a report of a possible racially charged assault and battery against a cast member of the television show Empire “Given the severity of the allegations, we are taking this investigation very seriously and treating it as a possible hate crime.” The latest on the investigation and the reactions pouring in — TOMORROW on @GMA: https://t.co/1zPGUNY0V3 https://t.co/DXVHjPh9oq — Good Morning America (@GMA) January 30, 2019  NEW: Chicago PD has clarified that the investigation into the alleged Jussie Smollett attack is a Chicago Police-led investigation, and confirm to ABC the FBI is assisting in the investigation of an earlier threat to Smollet, in the form of a letter: https://t.co/1zPGUNY0V3 pic.twitter.com/1nof06roXJ — Good Morning America (@GMA) January 30, 2019  MORE: Jussie Smollett was walking in Chicago Tuesday when someone shouted racial and homophobic slurs at him, Chicago police tell @ABC. Two men then attacked the actor, poured “an unknown chemical substance” on him, and wrapped a rope around his neck. https://t.co/C81EJ5JDPm pic.twitter.com/9AtL4uNFjP — Good Morning America (@GMA) January 29, 2019  20th Century Fox Television in a statement said: “We are deeply saddened and outraged to learn that a member of our Empire family, Jussie Smollett was viciously attacked last night”. “We send our love to Jussie, who is resilient and strong, and we will work with law enforcement to bring these perpetrators to justice. The entire studio, network and production stands united in the face of any despicable act of violence and hate – especially against one of our own.”