PIETERMARITZBURG, January 29 – Maritzburg United have roped in former Orlando Pirates, Cape Town City and SuperSport United coach Eric Tinkler to try and keep the club in the Premier League. Tinkler, who had a brief stint with Chippa United earlier this season, has signed a six month deal with the Team of Choice with the option for another two years after that. The KZN Midlands club have endured a nightmare campaign having won only one of 18 league matches, during which time they’ve scored just six goals. This has left them five points adrift of safety at the foot of the standings. Tinkler’s appointment comes just one month after the club replaced Fadlu Davids with Muhsin Ertugral. But five successive defeats during the Turk’s tenure saw him leaving the club by ‘mutual consent’ on Monday. With a league fixture against log-leaders Bidvest Wits – the club Tinkler once played for and coached at – looming on Friday, Maritzburg chairman Farook Kadodia moved swiftly to hire a replacement, and Tinkler will be conducting his first training session with his new team on Tuesday. Needing to try and restore confidence and belief in a team which last season reached the Nedbank Cup final and finished fourth in the league, it was important for the Pietermaritzburg team to bring in a man with the right type of temperament, and Kadodia believes that the former Bafana Bafana midfielder will provide that. “I spoke to Eric at length yesterday [Monday] and this morning, it’s obviously a different approach when you’re fighting relegation, and he understands very well the approach that is needed and he has a strategy of how to get the club out of relegation trouble,” he said. “I firmly believe that after my long day yesterday speaking to the team and the technical staff, that their full support will be behind Eric. This is what you want because you can bring a new coach in but if the team is not behind him, then obviously you have challenges. “But from what Eric has told me, he knows what it will take to bring the club out of the current situation.” (ANA)