JOHANNESBURG, January 22  – The African National Congress (ANC) called on party members and citizens with information to avail themselves to the Commission of Inquiry into allegations of State Capture, secretary-general Ace Magashule said on Tuesday, adding that the party would make submissions at “appropriate times”. “The commission, by virtue of its mandate, will deal with difficult matters, but this is inevitable if we want to unearth the truth,” Magashule said in a statement on the outcomes of the national executive committee (NEC) lekgotla. “The commission in the nature of its work must hear all sides, so that when it makes its final determinations, it will be a just, thorough and fair outcome, that takes the country forward. The ANC maintains its position, that it will not be giving running commentary on the work of the commission, but will make submissions at appropriate times.” He said the lekgotla affirmed the commitment made in the party’s 2019 manifesto “that we learned the harsh impact of corruption on society and the economy. We have learned hard lessons about the vigilance needed to stop lawlessness, greed and selfishness taking root. We are resolved to work with our people to address this cancer in society”. Speaking on the South African Reserve Bank’s (SARB) mandate and its private shareholders, Magashule said the lekgotla reaffirmed the independence of the institution. “The SARB must pursue flexible monetary policy regime, and without sacrificing price stability, ensure that monetary policy takes into account other objectives such as employment creation and economic growth,” he said. The lekgotla took note of the work-in-progress on sustainable and radical land reform and agriculture, he said, including the “processes started in 2018 on the constitutional amendment to section 25, the expropriation bill, speeding up outstanding land resolution claims; the package of agricultural support and land to small scale and emerging farmers as part of the economic recovery package; tenure security, and advancing women’s access to land and participation in agriculture and rural economies”. “The lekgotla reaffirmed education, health and skills as critical to economic development and sustainable growth. The country needs a healthy and skilled workforce for a productive economy and active citizenship. Education and health must remain apex priorities and must be considered as an investment and not a consumption from an economic perspective,” Magashule said. “The Lekgotla agreed that we would ask government to fast-track social infrastructure, particularly schools, clinics, water and sanitation reticulation and the construction and maintenance of community assets.” Magashule said that the lekgotla emphasised the ANC’s call for data to fall to enable citizens and businesses to participate in the digital revolution. (ANA)