JOHANNESBURG, January 28 – Former SAA board chairwoman Dudu Myeni showed Bosasa executives a National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) report on an investigation into the facilities management company’s corrupt activities, its former COO Angelo Agrizzi testified before the state capture inquiry on Monday. Agrizzi said Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson told him one afternoon that he had received a call from Myeni requesting a meeting. “She told him [Gavin Watson] she had some documents and it was critical that they meet. Gavin asked me to attend the meeting with him at Sheraton Hotel [in Pretoria, opposite the Union Buildings]. We took along R300 000 cash with us for her.” Myeni told the two executives that she had been in a long meeting with the NPA as part of her attempts to thwart the investigation into  Bosasa’s alleged corrupt activities across government departments. Agrizzi said Myeni produced a file that looked like a docket, took out a few pages and handed the file to him to look at, but he was not permitted to make copies or take photographs as it was a confidential document. “I took the file and asked to be excused as I needed some quietness around me to look at the file properly and write down the notes. I put the papers on the couch and the floor next to me…I knew it was too extensive to write down everything, so I thought I should take a few photographs. I could see from where she was sitting that she was getting nervous and fidgety, and I did not have time… so I took pictures of some of the information in the document,” said Agrizzi. The report contained names of suspects who were the subject of the investigation, including Bosasa executives such as Andries Van Tonder, Dr. Smith, Agrizzi and former correctional services boss Linda Mti, among others. Watson’s name did not appear in the list, Agrizzi said. When Myeni asked him if he took photographs after the meeting, Agrizzi said “no, I didn’t”.  He said he saved the photographs on his cellphone, and handed them to the commission’s investigators. Evidence leader Paul Pretorius told the commission that the carpet pattern on Agrizzi’s photos was found to be a match with carpeting on the sixth floor of the Sheraton. Agrizzi said Watson specifically asked Myeni that she go to Zuma and have the investigation “shut down immediately”, to which Myeni replied: “I’ll work on it.” The former Bosasa COO further testified about how company executives were introduced to Zuma. He said the first instance was at Zuma’s Johannesburg house in Forest Town soon after he was elected ANC president in Polokwane, 2007. Zuma’s “prayer warrior”, Zuki Madonga from East London, who worked with Zuma during his rape trial, was the first person who offered to introduce Watson to Zuma. “Zuki arrived at our offices one early morning, she was introduced to me by Tiny Makoko. Later when Watson was there she was introduced to him too. I was then asked to top up Tiny Makoko’s credit card because she wanted to go buy dresses for the lady [Madonga]. I processed the top up, and later received a phone call from Watson to pick him up to take him to the Forest Town house to meet with Zuma. I sat in the car while Gavin had a meeting with him [Zuma].” Madonga then went off the radar after some time, said Agrizzi. Myeni then came to the fore, replacing Madonga, ensuring unfettered Bosasa access to the former president. Agrizzi testified that various high profile people, mainly government officials and ministers, frequented the Bosasa head office in Krugersdorp in the West Rand. “We showed them what we were doing during a four-and-a-half-hour tour of the Bosasa campus. We trained staff to give them a rendition of what they were doing. We had numerous people…from the minister of health right up to former president Zuma. He [Zuma] spent four hours with us on a Saturday morning.” Watson said he told Zuma to shut down the investigations into Bosasa at a meeting at Zuma’s homestead in Nkandla, KwaZulu-Natal. “The request was that [now communication minister] Nomvula Mokonyane speak to [former SIU head] Anwa Dramat to shut down the case. Dramat would not engage Mokonyane and avoided her calls.” Watson, having met Zuma several times, had bragged during meetings with other executives about how close he was to the former president, said Agrizzi. “He always praised Zuma on how phenomenal and how brilliant a president he was …he had a very good rapport with him. He believed he was totally bullet proof with Zuma by his side.” Former South African Airways (SAA) board chairperson and head of the Jacob Zuma Foundation, Dudu Myeni, was paid R300,000 monthly by Bosasa as she was powerful and ”very close” to former president Zuma, Bosasa’s former COO Angelo Agrizzi testified. Agrizzi said a designer hand bag from the Louis Vuitton stable was purchased and stuffed with R300,000 cash earmarked for the Jacob Zuma Foundation. The cash handovers happened several times at the Sheraton Hotel and at Bosasa premises, Agrizzi told the Zondo Commission into State capture in Johannesburg. ”There were a few occasions of cash payments… I was merely present when that happened, [Bosasa CEO Gavin] Watson handed over the cash on one occasion, other times it was Trevor Mathenjwa [Bosasa executive]. Myeni was close to the president and could swing deals, she was very powerful,” he told the commission. Furthermore, Myeni would request Bosasa to assist the foundation with events, including Zuma’s birthday celebrations. Myeni also furthered requested security upgrades for her home Agrizzi testified. ”Watson asked us how we can impress Myeni. My wife suggested to me that we buy her a Louis Vuitton handbag. Watson said he hoped Myeni was giving the money to Zuma as intended. She was happy with the handbag…she told Watson that she was over the moon and delighted. Some time later when I saw her, she [Myeni] thanked me personally for the bag,” Agrizzi said. The cost of JZF functions to Bosasa was over R3,5 million at his last calculation, Agrizzi added. Agrizzi read out a thank you letter signed by Myeni in which she thanked Bosasa for organising one of Zuma’s birthday parties. Myeni wrote ”the family was thrilled to have a wonderful time with their father and enjoyed the dinner prepared with care. The chef’s works was commended by everyone.” Agrizzi said as time went on, Watson began to wonder whether Zuma was receiving the cash from Myeni, contemplating to deliver it himself. Watson and another Bosasa executive, Johannes Gumede, held a meeting with Zuma where the cash payments were discussed. Watson also gave R300,000 cash to Zuma in that meeting, said Agrizzi. ”Watson wanted to make sure that Dudu was not taking any of the cash earmarked for Zuma and the foundation. Watson said he asked Zuma if he did receive the cash, and he [Zuma], said yes,” Agrizzi said. As the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (Hawks) began an investigation into alleged corruption by Bosasa, Watson and Gumede travelled to Nkandla, Zuma’s homestead in KwaZulu-Natal, where the investigation was discussed. Agrizzi said Zuma told the two executives he would ”make phone calls” to the Hawks. ”I think the call to the Hawks was made… because the Hawks later contacted Gumede, requesting a meeting,” he said. (ANA)