Steven Motale Deputy President David “DD” Mabuza has been caught on video being rapped over the knuckles by ANC national chairperson Gwede Mantashe for “a plan” which Africa News 24-7 was reliably informed targeted former President Jacob Zuma.  It would not be the first time Mabuza embarrasses Zuma whose supporters have never forgiven the ANC’s second-in-command after he “betrayed” them by urging his Mpumalanga delegates to vote for Cyril Ramaphosa at Nasrec, after initially pledging his support for their candidate, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. In a video doing the rounds on WhatssApp groups, which was apparently taken shortly before the commencement of the ANC gala dinner at Durban’s International Conference Centre(ICC) on Friday, a day before the ruling party’s manifesto launch rally, ANC national chairperson is seen confronting and reprimanding Mabuza about “your plan”. Watch the full video below:  Africa News 24-7 understands that the plan, involving Mabuza, Ramaphosa and ANC treasurer general Paul Mashatile was aimed at embarrassing Zuma, who was made to sit in another holding room at the venue by making him either completely miss the gala dinner or arrive late so that he is not acknowledged by the speakers at the event and is seen not to be respecting party events by arriving late.  Africa News 24-7 understands that Zuma, who was accompanied by his wife Thobeka Madiba-Zuma arrived on time at the event and was told by Protocol to wait in the holding room where he would be fetched by Ramaphosa. However Ramaphosa failed to pitch up and Zuma was left stranded in the room until the gala dinner started. Zuma and his wife then went to the venue on their own after the national anthem had been sung and guests had taken already their seats. To add to his misery, Zuma’s presence was not acknowledged by ANC’s elections head Fikile Mbalula who was the programme director. In the video, five members of the ANC top six are seen in another room. Mantashe is captured entering the room and is greeted by Mabuza who asks him: “How are you?”  Mantashe then responds: “Into yakho angiyiqondi kakuhle.” (I don’t understand your thing. Mabuza then asks: “Awuyiqondi kakuhle, Intoyami?” (You don’t understand it properly, my thing, Uzoyiqonda? (You’ll understand it) While Mantashe carries on to greet Ramaphosa, ANC deputy secretary general Jessie Duarte and first lady Tshepo Motsepe, Mabuza and Mashatile stare each other in the eyes. Mantashe again confronts Mabuza who asks: “We Shlalo uthi kwenzenjani?” (Chairperson what do you say is happening?” Mantashe responds: “Lento eniyiplanayo eyizokwenzeke” (What you are planning will never happen) Mabuza then asks: “Eyiphi into esiyi planayo?”(What is it that we are planning”) ANC spokesman Zizi Kodwa said the ANC was not aware of any plot and “would discourage conspiracy that has no basis and will amount to gossip”. Asked why Mbalula had not acknowledged the presence of Zuma Kodwa said: When the gala dinner programme started former president hadn’t arrived when acknowledgements were done by programme director. It was agreed that president Ramaphosa will do so in his address, and he did acknowledge him.” Concluded Kodwa: “The ANC is happy that the Jan 8 and Manifesto rally went without incident, ANC thanks thousands of supporters who came out in numbers to be part of people’s Manifesto launch which was a clear demonstration of how the ANC is still embedded in hearts of South Africans both black and white.” However Zuma contradicted Kodwa’s version of events. “We were given a particular time to arrive at the venue and we arrived earlier than the time we were given. We were then ushered to a holding room by a lady from Protocol who told us to wait until comrade Ramapahosa collects us”. “We waited for several minutes until we heard the national anthem being sung. Even after the singing of the anthem nobody came to pick us up as promised. The lady from Protocol came and she too was surprised that we were still there and nobody had come to pick us up. We then decided to walk to the venue on our own,” Zuma said. He added that he and his wife were already seated when Mbalula made his opening remarks including acknowledgements of guests.