PIETERMARITZBURG, January 28 – Muhsin Ertugral’s tenure as Maritzburg United coach has ended after only five games in charge, the club announced on Monday. The 59-year-old Turk took over from Fadlu Davids (who is now an assistant coach at Orlando Pirates) a couple of days after Christmas. However, the former Ajax Cape Town, Golden Arrows and Kaizer Chiefs mentor was unable to affect a turn-around during his month-long stay, during which time he lost all five of the matches he was in charge. After league defeats to Golden Arrows, Free State Stars, Mamelodi Sundowns and Chippa United left the Team of Choice rooted to the foot of the table and five points adrift of safety, a penalty shoot-out defeat to National First Division side Witbank Spurs in the Nedbank Cup on Sunday proved the final straw as the club decided to take action to try and arrest their free-falling form. Maritzburg chairman Farook Kadodia had been hoping that Ertugral’s arrival would have provided fresh energy and impetus into a squad which had been badly underachieving after their exploits of the 2017/ 18 campaign, when they had finished fourth in the league and reached the Nedbank Cup final under Davids. But the club boss admitted the appointment did not work as planned. “After yesterday’s result [against Spurs] I had a meeting with the coach to discuss what was the vibe he was getting from the players,” Kadodia said. “This was an important question because five games into the job and the coach was not producing any results. The coach admitted that he was concerned himself and felt he had done everything as best he could to turn things around, but the results did not come. “It was then decided that we both shake hands and, by mutual agreement, go our separate ways. Normally a new coach brings a new energy into a club and we had high hopes that this will be the case when we appointed Muhsin Ertugral. But unfortunately after five games this was not forthcoming. “The club had to look at its survival and its future, so it was ultimately a results-based decision not to continue with the coach.” The Pietermaritzburg outfit have won just one of 18 league matches this season and have scored only six goals, although the 17 goals conceded is the fourth best record in the division. Their next game is away to Bidvest Wits on Friday. Maritzburg’s cause has not been helped by a succession of injuries to key players, nor by the departure of Lebohang Maboe to Mamelodi Sundowns at the start of the season, while one of last season’s star performers, Siphesihle Ndlovu, has failed to live up to expectations and has seemingly been affected by talk of a transfer to one of the big clubs in Gauteng. (ANA)