PRETORIA, 8 January – Gauteng member of the executive council (MEC) for Roads and Transport Dr Ismail Vadi has called for urgent measures to be implemented to ensure commuters safety following the collision of two trains on Tuesday. “We are deeply shocked by this tragic accident so early in the new year. We call on the Passenger Rail Agency of SA and the Railway Safety Regulator to urgently investigate the cause of the crash and institute urgent measures to improve commuters’ safety on trains,” said Vadi. The trains, which were both traveling on the same line towards Pretoria direction from Mabopane, collided at Mountain View Station, north of Pretoria. More than 300 commuters were injured during the accident and three lost their lives. “We would like to express our heartfelt condolences to the families of the deceased and wish those injured a speedy recovery,” Vadi said. Acting provincial police commissioner of Gauteng Major General Max Masha, said they are going to open an inquest docket to investigate the cause of the collision. President Cyril Ramaphosa has sent condolences to the victims of  the train accident which occurred on Tuesday morning in Pretoria at the Mountain View station. The collision left hundreds injured and at least three dead. “I have learned with sadness of the train accident, with three fatalities at this point and over 600 being attended to at various hospitals, mostly with light injuries. Our thoughts are with those who lost their lives and their families. To the injured I would like to wish you all a speedy recovery, ” said Ramaphosa. “I would like to also encourage emergency services team on the scene to do all in their powers to help those who are still trapped under the train.” Ramaphosa said he welcomed the efforts by Gauteng Metrorail to institute a board of enquiry to determine the cause of the accident. Earlier, acting provincial police commissioner of Gauteng Major General Max Masha, said they were going to open an inquest docket to investigate the cause of the collision. “If it’s found that there’s been negligence a charge culpable homicide might be opened,” he said. The trains were carrying more than 800 passengers at the time of the accident. The circumstances leading up to the collision were still unclear. There are also conflicting reports about the number of deaths, with Masha stating four people had died, while Gauteng Metrorail spokesperson Lillian Mofokeng said the death toll stood at three. Mofokeng confirmed that over 300 commuters were injured, with 82 suffering moderate injuries and 159 light injuries. At around lunchtime she confirmed that there were two or three people still trapped inside the trains. “For now we don’t have the full details of what caused the accident,” Mofokeng said. Both trains were from Mabopane station and heading towards Pretoria station. “Unfortunately one was stationery on the platform when the other one hit it at the back,” said Mofokeng. Fifty ambulances were at the scene and three helicopters assisted with getting critically injured patients to hospitals. Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga said he has always raised concerns about the infrastructure of railway lines and their outdated resources. “I don’t want to speculate about what happened this morning because they are still investigating. But I think there’s a need now to immediately have a meeting with Prasa (Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa). We cannot lose anymore lives, there needs to be some kind of upgrade in terms of signalling that is in here.” Msimanga said the he plans to meet with the families of the deceased. The acting provincial police commissioner of Gauteng, Major General Max Masha, said police have opened an inquest docket to investigate the cause of the collision between two trains in Mountain View on Tuesday which left at least three people dead and hundreds more injured. “If it’s found that there’s been negligence, a charge culpable homicide might be opened,” Masha said. The trains were carrying more than 800 passengers when the accident occurred shortly after 10am. The circumstances leading up to the collision are still unclear at the moment. There are also conflicting reports about the number of deaths, with Masha stating four people had died, while Gauteng Metrorail spokesperson Lillian Mofokeng said the death toll stood at three. Mofokeng confirmed that over 300 commuters were injured, with 82 suffering had moderate injuries and 159 light injuries. At around lunchtime she confirmed that there are two or three people who still trapped inside the trains. “For now we don’t have the full details of what caused the accident,” Mofokeng said. Both trains were from Mabopane station and heading towards Pretoria station. “Unfortunately one was stationery on the platform when the other one hit it at the back,” said Mofokeng. Fifty ambulances were at the scene and three helicopters assisted with getting critically injured patients to hospitals. Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga said he has always raised concerns about the infrastructure of railway lines and their outdated resources. “I don’t want to speculate about what happened this morning because they are still investigating. But I think there’s a need now to immediately have a meeting with Prasa (Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa). We cannot lose anymore lives, there needs to be some kind of upgrade in terms of signalling that is in here.” Msimanga said the he plans to meet with the families of the deceased. (ANA)  