JOHANNESBURG, January 18 – Four men, aged between 23 and 28, were arrested on Friday in connection with business robbery after the Menzi Primary School in Tsakane was robbed, Gauteng police said. Spokesperson Captain Kay Makhubele said an intelligence-driven operation by detectives from the Ekurhuleni East Cluster and Trio Task Team led the members to the Johannesburg CBD where four suspects were arrested. “During the arrest police recovered 22 tablets and three laptops believed to have been taken from the school during the business robbery. Investigations are ongoing as the possibility of more arrests cannot be ruled out,” Makhubele said. He said they were also searching for the remaining stolen items, and were thus appealing to members of the community who may have information on the suspects or the stolen goods to contact Tsakane police station. The Gauteng police management welcomed the arrest. At the start of the 2019 school year, Gauteng Education member of the executive committee (MEC) Panyaza Lesufi visited the Menzi Primary School to unveil 33 new smart classrooms. The equipment was stolen six days later. The four men are expected to appear in the Tsakane Magistrate’s Court on Monday. Earlier on Friday, the Gauteng education department said the school equipment stolen from Menzi Primary school was found in a shop in the Johannesburg CBD. Spokesperson Steve Mabona said 16 tablets and three laptops stolen from a new multimillion-rand school has been recovered in the shop in the Johannesburg CBD on the corner of Mooi and Helen Joseph streets. At the time of the robbery, two security guards were tied up and locked in a strongroom at the school and the criminals broke the main vault door to get keys for the entire school. The department said the main areas broken into were the administration block and the IT offices, where the tablets are charged overnight. “There is evident forceful entry on the doors of all the areas they went into,” the department said at the time. It said items stolen included all 185 tablets for pupils, eight laptops for teachers, two data projectors, three desktop computers, a flat screen TV, petty cash of just less than R500 and a digital video recorder. School equipment stolen from Menzi Primary school in in Tsakane in Ekurhuleni in Gauteng, has been found in a shop in the Johannesburg CBD, and four suspects have been arrested, the provincial department of education said on Friday. Spokesperson Steve Mabona said 16 tablets and three laptops stolen from a new multimillion-rand school has been recovered in the shop in the Johannesburg CBD on the corner of Mooi and Helen Joseph streets. At the start of the 2019 school year, Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi visited the Menzi Primary School to unveil 33 new smart classrooms. The equipment was stolen six days later. Two security guards were tied up and locked in a storeroom at the school and the criminals broke the main vault door to get keys for the entire school. The department said the main areas broken into were the administration block and the IT offices, where the tablets are charged overnight. “There is evident forceful entry on the doors of all the areas they went into,” said the department. It said items stolen included all 185 tablets for pupils, eight laptops for teachers, two data projectors, three desktop computers, a flat screen TV, petty cash of just less than R500 and a digital video recorder. Police have confirmed that the suspects have been arrested and were taken to Johannesburg Central police station. (ANA)