JOHANNESBURG, January 4 – President Cyril Ramaphosa on Thursday, congratulated the matric class of 2018 for keeping the pass rate above 70 percent, and said the achievement underscored the importance of working together. “As South Africans, we can all take pride in the dedication shown by learners and educators. Together, they have presented our nation with another cohort of young people whose life chances have been significantly enhanced, and whose success in basic education is indeed reversing the damage inflicted on generations of South Africans who were deprived of quality education under apartheid,” said Ramaphosa. The Presidency said the class of 2018 was the fourth largest cohort in the history of basic education to register for the NSC examination. Ramaphosa said this illustrated the impact of government’s support to poor learners and their families. Basic Education Minister, Angie Motshekga made the announcement of the 2018 National Senior Certificate results on Thursday evening in Midrand, Johannesburg. The national matric pass rate is 78.2 percent with progressed learners included, an improvement of 3.1 percent , compared to the 75.1 percent of the previous year. Meanwhile, Parliament’s portfolio committee on basic education congratulated the matric class and committee chairperson Nomalungelo Gina said the committee was excited with the 2018 matric pass mark. The committee called on the basic education department to sustain the improvement in the pass mark. “We have noted the continued improvement of the Grade 12 results since 2014 and especially by the Free State province. But the committee wishes to congratulate the Eastern Cape province for the improvement it has made in the 2018 results,” said Gina. “This kind of performance by the province is inspiring and should give all those who were involved in the sector comfort and hope that they can do better. Challenges in the system are there, most of which are not education related but impact on the performance of learners.” South Africa’s parliament says more attention should be given to schools in rural communities to bring them on par with those in urban areas. The legislature’s portfolio committee on basic education applauded the 78.2 percent pass mark from the 2018 high school finishing matric exams, urging the department of basic education to sustain the improvement and the upward trend dating to 2014. “The committee wishes to reiterate its call that more attention should be given to schools that are in rural communities,” it said in a statement issued late on Thursday. The results announced by basic education minister Angie Motshekga showed the best results came from schools in the economic hub of Gauteng province, followed by the Free State. The parliament committee noted that the Eastern Cape province had made a significant improvement. “Challenges in the system are there, most of which are not education related but impact on the performance of learners,” it said. An ideal situation for the country would be when top matric performers were drawn from all schools especially in technical subjects and natural sciences, the parliament committee added. (ANA)