DURBAN, February 26 – So-called Durban power couple S’bu and Shauwn Mpisane could gain access to their seized assets and disrupt an ongoing probe if a dispute between the country’s tax collector and the curator it appointed to oversee the couple’s possessions is not settled, court papers have revealed. The South African Revenue Services (SARS) and the curators – Henk Strydom and Tshifhiwa Mudzusi – are set to make their arguments before the Durban High Court on Wednesday. Strydom and Mudzusi are looking to withdraw as curators due to non-payment by SARS. They have said that a new curator in the form of Cloete Murray was willing to take on the curatorship. Murray was last week named the court-appointed liquidator for African Global Operations, formerly Bosasa. SARS and partners Strydom and Mudzusi are blaming each other for the state of affairs, but both parties have also said that the situation plays right into the hands of the Mpisanes, who are expected to oppose the removal of Strydom and Mudzusi to “frustrate” the process. In affidavits filed at the court and seen by African News Agency (ANA), Strydom and Mudzusi have claimed, “SARS has not honoured the obligations” or upheld its “financial commitment” to pay them for the monthly costs of the preservation of assets. This, according to Strydom’s affidavit, had led to “an irreconcilable dispute and impasse” between the curators and SARS. The Mpisanes have been locked in a dispute with SARS over unpaid taxes dating back to 2008. According to Strydom’s affidavit, the couple owes the tax collector at least R141 million.  Liquidation of the couple’s companies is underway as is their personal sequestration, subject to appeals. The assets will likely be auctioned off by SARS to recoup funds. Strydom said SARS owed him R493 525 as well as a substantial amount to Mudzusi, which combined amounted to more than R800 000. He said they had not been able to properly execute their duties due to the non-payment. SARS has claimed that Strydom and Mudzusi failed in their duties and said the tax collector was happy for Murray to take over curatorship. Jaco Roestoff, the attorney for Strydom and Mudzusi, has said that Shauwn Mpisane and her group of companies – under the Zikhulise Group (Pty) Ltd – filed notices of opposition but had yet to file the actual opposing papers. “Our instructions are to proceed with the application on 28 February 2019. We expect that there will be an attempted delay, frustration and obfuscation of the matter by Mrs. Mpisane,” said Roestoff. Mpisane’s lawyer, Manogh Maharaj, was not willing to comment. Strydom’s affidavit said the change in curatorship would have no material change to the preservation order granted in November 2016. He said the couple’s assets mostly comprised “plant, equipment and other moveable assets scattered at remote rural locations throughout KwaZulu-Natal”. The assets were vulnerable to “instantaneous relocation”, he said. “In order to effectively preserve these assets, urgent steps are necessary to retrieve them from their present whereabouts,” said Strydom. He said the cost of retrieving the assets would be about R1.5-million and thereafter in the region of R200 000 a month for storage. “We cannot work for free and we cannot pay the substantial continued monthly expenses from our own pockets, with the hope of getting paid in future.” He said from March 1, 2019, they would no longer execute their duties as curators whether or not the application was heard. Among the assets already under the care of Strydom and Mudzusi are various bank accounts and properties – including the family mansion in La Lucia – and several vehicles. “We as curators are not able to carry the financial burden of keeping the asset preservation mechanisms…intact. Those mechanisms will no longer be retained and their absence would enable the Mpisanes…to circumvent the provisions of the [preservation] order and obviate the six years investigations and litigation. This is precisely what the Mpisanes have in mind,” said Strydom. In her affidavit, SARS legal advisor Diane Lalor said the tax collector supported the appointment of Murray as curator because “trust” between SARS and Strydom and Mudzusi could “under no circumstances be resurrected”. She said the court must evaluate the reasons as to why the Mpisanes wanted to oppose the matter. The present “impasse” suited the Mpisanes, she said, “in that they are at liberty to dispose of or control the assets and business under preservation, in a manner that they deem fit, to the detriment of [SARS] and contrary to the provisions of the court order.” (ANA)