JOHANNESBURG – Pastor Alph Lukau of Alleluia Ministries International claims to have brought a man (who seemed to be breathing a lot for a dead guy) back from the dead. According to Pastor Lukau the man died for three days and yesterday at AMI under Lukau he rose from the dead. It all started during Lukau’ church service on Sunday when a woman shouted: “Pastor Alph, something is happening outside. There is a family that is about to bring a corpse to Zimbabwe, but they are saying something is happening, man of God. “As the funeral parlour drove over the church door, their neighbour said it seemed like the fingers of this dead corpse were beginning to move,” she added. The pastor went outside, then asked the workers to take the coffin out of the hearse He asked the workers to open the coffin. He spoke to the deceased’s older brother before the coffin was completely taken out of the hearse. According to the deceased’s landlord, the man had gotten sick and started “coughing a lot” on Friday. “We took him to the hospital and they said they could not help him because he did not have papers, so we took him to the doctor and he died there,” she claimed. The family then took the body to the mortuary, where it was kept until Sunday. Pastor Alph then asked the congregants to lift their hands and start praying. “Rise up!” he shouted, before the man got up and sat in the coffin, looking confused, like a modern-day Lazarus. “The coffin is empty,” he said as the congregants jumped and screamed for joy. Lukau’s church boasts hundreds of thousands of members across many branches in several countries. He and his wife are known for their conspicuous consumption, including sharing photos of him disembarking from a private jet and various luxury vehicles.  Watch the video below:   The Controversial pastor has come under scrutiny for his miracle works and a series of acts that purports him to his followers as a powerful man of God. He is seen in several videos healing wheeled patients from hospitals at the same parking area of his church.  Pastor Alph Lukau raising a man from the dead, Good hands or Climax? The guys will get this one.. but I’m not sure if white dude is convinced, Black Jesus or Fake Pastor? pic.twitter.com/Tn5jecWNEr — Selwyn Addinall, Roof on TOP  (@AddinallSelwyn) February 25, 2019  Just Wanna See The Register From A Motuary This Man Was Admitted In, This Guy Alph Lukau Is Misleading The Public pic.twitter.com/Pk3fNlmR0P — Hlalithwa Elikhanyako (@Khulelizako) February 25, 2019  Mara Jesu!! #Alph_Lukau. What is it money, fame or demonic torment? pic.twitter.com/bZOMjoat6h — Pfanani Tshiwandimoni (@PTshiwandimoni) February 24, 2019  This is supposedly the “dead” man whom Alph Lukau resurrected from the dead.
Just look at him.
Such fraud must be punishable! pic.twitter.com/HY5AZSEBCp — Mathanda (@MathandaNcube) February 24, 2019  Crooked Bushiri has nothing on Crooked Lukau. Alph lukau resurrect a man who is already breathing in the coffin – competition for these thugs so called pastors is very high and they are trying so hard. pic.twitter.com/CEfBtF0eEX — Man’s Not Barry Roux  (@AdvBarryRoux) February 25, 2019 