MBABANE, Eswatini, February 21 – When Eswatini women’s soccer national team coach Fisiwe Hlophe set a season’s league goal-haul of 86 during the 2008/9 season for Imbabatane Ladies, little did she know that she would one day be coaching someone who has similar goal-poaching talents.
Hlophe, an assistant coach at Eswatini Women Soccer League pacesetters Young Buffaloes Ladies, is helping to inspire national women’s team captain, Celiwe Nkambule to break her goal-scoring record.
“It was 10 years ago when I set the record of 86 goals when I was playing for Imbabatane (now called Mbabane Swallows Ladies). The same joy that I had then will no doubt be felt by the first player to reach or surpass it,” said Hlophe.
Scoring 86 goals in one season in men’s football is unthinkable, even for prolific strikers like Lionel Messi, Mohammed Salah, Harry Kane, Sergio Aguero and Cristiano Ronaldo.
In Eswatini, Nkambule is on course to better Hlophe’s record and already has 42 goals in nine matches, scoring in every game.
At the moment it is the tail-end of the rainy season in Eswatini but in the Women’s Football League it’s also raining goals with the Young Buffaloes Ladies and Nkambule promising an avalanche to add to her tally.
Last weekend, Young Buffaloes Ladies were supposed to take on Mbekelweni at the Eswatini Football Association Technical Centre, but Young Buffaloes were awarded the victory after Mbekelweni were suspended from the league.
The decision meant it was the first match of the season that Nkambule was unable to score!
Said Nkambule: “I am not there yet but I intend to break my assistant coach’s record by the end of the season and hopefully be counted among the world’s best.
“This is my wish which always inspires me as a player,” Nkambule told the local media.
The previous weekend, she netted 10 goals in the 22-0 triumph over Illovo, just days after contributing eight to the 15-0 win over Shiselweni Roses.
Unbeaten in nine matches, Young Buffaloes Ladies unsurprisingly lead the pack on the League table, having already scored a whopping 86 goals. (ANA)