CAPE TOWN, February 20 – South Africa’s government has infrastructure investment plans amounting to R526 billion over the next three years and is stepping up its build programme by partnering with the private sector, development finance institutions and multilateral development banks for funding, the National Treasury said on Wednesday. President Cyril Ramaphosa’s government said last September it would establish an Infrastructure Fund in an effort to boost the sluggish economy. It said contributions from the fiscus towards the fund were set be in excess of R400 billion. On Wednesday the Treasury said the fund would draw on global expertise to strengthen project preparation and implementation, with discussions already under way with the Development Bank of Southern Africa (DBSA), the World Bank and the New Development Bank set up by BRICS members Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa. It said the government intended to commit at least R100 billion to the fund over the coming decade to leverage private-sector and development finance funding for well-planned capital projects. The support would take different forms, including blended co-funding, capital subsidies, and long-term interest rate subsidies and guarantees. Blended-finance projects ready for implementation – including student housing projects – would be expanded, with R1 billion added in 2019/20 for this purpose. The National Treasury said it had begun the process of drafting legislation to support the fund. It noted that South Africa’s public infrastructure investments over the past two decades had amounted to about R3 trillion, but that the speed, quality and efficiency of many of these projects had not matched the level of investment. “Project planning at all levels, including for long-term maintenance, has proven inadequate,” it acknowledged. Tabling the 2019 budget review in Parliament, Finance Minister Tito Mboweni said over R30 billion would be allocated to build new schools and maintain schooling infrastructure, with an additional R2.8 billion added to school infrastructure backlogs grant to replace pit latrines at over 2,400 schools. The South African National Roads Agency would be allocated an additional R3.5 billion over the next three years to improve non-toll roads, he said. Mboweni said four things would get South Africa better infrastructure; namely creating a sensible project pipeline, streamlining the law to make it easier to build, availing better information for everyone and actually building. The government was so far working on a wastewater treatment facility works in the Vaal, a solar water geyser programme and student accommodation, while R625 million was allocated to the DBSA, the Government Technical Advisory Centre and the Presidential Infrastructure Coordinating Commission to strengthen project preparation on a speeded-up basis. (ANA)